# Project Description
GPPG is a parser generator that produces parsers written in the C# V2 or higher. The input language is YACC-like, and the parsers are LALR(1), with the usual automatic disambiguations.  Designed to work with GPLEX.

This repository now has the full documentation for the parser-generator.


## Features
_GPPG_ generates bottom-up parsers.  The generated parsers recognize languages that are _LALR(1)_, with the traditional **yacc** disambiguations.   There are a number of extensions of the traditional input language that are necessary for correctness of the generated C# output files. 

The generated parsers are designed to interface cleanly with scanners generated by _Gardens_ _Point_ _LEX_.  However, gppg-generated scanners have been successfully used with both handwritten scanners and with scanners generated by _COCO/R_. 

A particular feature of the tool is the optional generation of an html report file that allows easy navigation of the finite state automaton that recognizes the viable prefixes of the specified language.  This report shows the production items, lookahead symbols and actions for each state of the automaton.  It also optionally shows an example of a shortest input, and shortest FSA-path reaching each state.  This report file considerably simplifies the diagnosis of grammar conflicts.

## Examples Of Use

There are a small number of examples of use included in the download package, and these are fully discussed in the documentation.  For a more complex example _GPLEX_ and this companion _GPPG_ tool each themselves use scanners and parsers generated by _GPLEX_ and _GPPG_. The examples discussed in the GPLEX and GPPG documentation have now been added to the distro as file GP-Examples.zip.

## History
The original version of _GPPG_ was produced by Wayne Kelly at QUT.   Further development and ongoing maintainence has been by John Gough.
